# Louie
Gulp-powered static site generator, named after the dog who was sitting at my feet when I wrote it.

Louie...

- compiles your Sass to prefixed and minified CSS
- supports partials and templating
- comes with normalize.css and some base styles
- auto-reloads pages when changes are made
- allows cross-device testing with BrowserSync
- can optimize image assets (.gif, .jpeg, .png and .svg)
- can deploy your site to [Surge](https://www.surge.sh/).

## Getting started

- Clone/Download this repository.
- Fire up your terminal, and navigate to project folder you just cloned/downloaded
- In your terminal, run:
```
npm install
```
This should install all necessary dependencies to get you up and running with Louie.

- Once you're done, run:
```
gulp
```
If gulp builds the project suuccessfully, it'll open a new tab in your browser and point it to `localhost:8888`. At this point, you should see a picture of Louie.

## How it works

#### Tasks
Louie understands the following commands:

- Run`gulp` to build the project. By default, Louie watches for changes as well.
- Run `gulp clean` to delete your current `_build` folder.
- Run `gulp deploy` to deploy your current `_build` folder to [Surge](https://www.surge.sh/). You'll need an account with Surge to do this.

This is how Louie's structured:

```
Louie/
├── _assets/
│   ├── img/
│   ├── js/
├── _build/
├── _pages/
│   ├── index.html
├── _partials/
│   ├── head.html
│   ├── scripts.html
├── _sass/
│   ├── base/
│   │	├── _grid.scss
│   │	├── _mixins.scss 
│   │	├── _normalize.scss 
│   │	├── _typography.scss 
│   │	├── _utilities.scss
│   │	├── _variables.scss
│   └── custom/
│   └── style.scss
└── gulpfile.js

```

- `_assets`: Contains all your static assets.
- `_build`: This is where your generated site goes! More on this in a little bit.
- `_pages`: This is where you put all your HTML. To add new pages and subdirs, just create them and put them in this folder. All of thse are eventually compiled into `_build`.
- `_partials`: Contains all the partials and templates you include in your HTML. Louie uses [Swig](paularmstrong.github.io/swig/) for templating. Swig's very well documented – check it out Swig's docs, or look at the simple example in `_pages/index.html` to learn how to use it.
- `_sass`: Contains all your styles. Default styles are split into modules and then imported into `style.scss`.
- `gulpfile.js`: All the tasks that are performed every time you build the project are defined here.

Note: the `_build` folder is generated by the gulpfile, and won't exist until the first time you run `gulp`.

The `_build` folder will look something like this once it's been generated:

```
Louie/
├── _build/
│   ├── assets/
│   │	├── css/
│   │	├── img/
│   │	├── js/
│   ├── index.html
```

## License

All parts of Louie are free to use under the [MIT license](https://github.com/dhg/Skeleton/blob/master/LICENSE.md).
